Hi, and welcome back.
In this video we're talking about
opening and closing files automatically
so we don't have to remember
to call file.close() at the end
of every time we wanna use a file.
So far we've been opening and closing
files explicitly, like this,
saying, file equals open() of something
and then at the end file.close().
By the way, I'll just say I've copied the code
we wrote in the last section,
and I've created another file for it,
just because I'm going to change it slightly
and I don't want us to lose any of the files here.
These files, again, are all on the GitHub
so you can access them if you want,
and the link to do that is at the start of this section,
the first lecture.
So we've been opening and closing files
automatically like so,
but Python actually has a piece of syntax
which is extremely handy for these scenarios.
And the scenario that this represents
is a pretty general scenario in which
we have to do some setup and some tear down.
The setup is we have to open the file,
and the tear down is that we have to close the file.
A setup is just a key word for something
that happens at the start,
and a tear down is a key word or
a concept for something that happens at the end.
Another example would be opening a database connection
at the start, and at the end
closing the database connection.
So as you can see, opening and closing things
pretty popular thing,
and this is a setup and tear down approach.
The construct that we're going to learn about,
this piece of syntax that Python offers,
is called a 'with' statement.
You may have seen this around
if you've looked at some Python code before,
and they use the with keyword,
and they're also known as context managers.
Context managers are reasonably advanced concepts,
and we're going to look at them more in depth
in the next section,
we're going to be programming some context managers.
But I just wanted to teach you how to use them,
so you start getting familiar with them,
and in the next section everything's gonna be much simpler.
In addition, they simplify our code greatly
and reduce the errors that we can cause
by forgetting to close files.
So instead of doing this here,
we can say
with open() as file:
then we can do this,
and we can do that.
That replaces our previous code,
now we do with,
then we open,
we call the open function,
and then we do as file so that
whatever the open() function returns
goes into this variable, then we can use that variable
when we reach the end of this indented block,
notice the colon at the end there,
when we reach the end of the indented block,
it automatically closes the file for us.
This here is called a context manager,
and it doesn't happen magically,
the open() function has defined that it can be used
with a context manager.
So you cannot just do this with anything you want,
but you have to define that you want to be able to
use a context manager with your stuff
and if you do that, you can start
using context managers like so.
Okay and in the next section we're going to look at
developing and programming our own context managers
but I wanted to show this scenario in which
you can use a context manager without even knowing
how it's programmed to simplify your code
and make it better.
So again, this allows you to open the file at the start,
and automatically close it at the end.
And the closing at the end happens
because the open() has said that
when you reach the end of the block,
the file shall close automatically.
Okay, there's no magic going on here,
the open function is defined to close the file at the end.
Now, I'd encourage you to do the same for this file here.
Replace it by a context manager as that's gonna give you
a little bit more practise implementing this stuff.
I hope you managed, again, all you have to do
is put the with at the start, and then as the variable.
The variable here, file, now gets created
as the result of this open().
Whatever's indented is going to be in the with,
and at the end of the with,
the file's gonna close automatically
so we don't need file.close(), either.
Okay, notice how for json.loads() or dumps(),
you don't need to do any withs
because there's no file to open or close.
These things are just going straight into
or straight out of strings.
So there's nothing to open or close.
So that's it.
A quick introduction to context managers,
and they're called context manager because
they help you manage the context of your application
in which you now have this file open.
And they manage the context by keeping the file open
during the context manager and not before it or after it.
So that's why they're called context managers.
We're going to learn more about them in the next section.
That's it for this video.
I'll see you in the next one.